	I have been  managing an internet café for more than 10 years and often times computers would need 
troubleshooting and I’d do it myself, I was around 10 years old when my brother taught me about troubleshooting 
computer software and hardware errors by letting me do it and applying it on the spot with him instructing behind me. 
It took me little amount of time to learn this because I had the visualization and experience of doing it. Technology 
is always upgrading, especially computers, and even with the knowledge that I had there are still things that I have 
yet to learn and experience regarding computer troubleshooting and I was looking forward for some additional knowledge 
and information that I can acquire in this subject.
	
	My first expectation of this subject was that it should be taught mostly through applications like how I was 
taught and not the usual “hand-outs distributed to student” kind of thing. Reporting done by students bores me it makes 
me always think that “I should’ve stayed home and do something rather than listening to these reporters who don’t even 
take a little compassion about their topic” and I’m pretty sure I’m not the only one who feels the same thing. It makes 
me feel like I wasted my time being in the classroom since I’m this kind of guy who doesn’t want to waste time on 
nonsense and illogical things, I could’ve done something on those one hour or two hours. Listening to a topic most 
people didn’t know their application would just go over their head, given some time they’d forget about it. I feel like 
we could have accomplished more if we visually show through application the troubleshooting techniques and then discuss 
the implication conducted through application. I strongly believe that by learning through application we would be 
straightforward to the topic and not waste time since some of my classmates don’t even know what some motherboard 
component looks like and how it functions, by learning through application this would ensure that the students digest 
more information fast and by learning it that way we’ll never forget it because we have that visual and the memory of 
the information of why and how it worked and we have grasped the basis for the troubleshooting concept. 
	
We are computer engineering students yet only a few knows how troubleshoot, operate and give advices regarding computers. 
Well, I don’t blame some my classmates by not knowing how to operate and troubleshoot computers since they didn’t have the 
opportunity and resources to learn this like I did. I just felt like this was an opportunity in which they could’ve learned 
more regarding about the topic but it got wasted. 
	
In terms of written examination, I liked the exam.  More on “asking students on what to do if this problem happens” essay 
type of exam is better rather than useless identification type exams (we are not high school students anymore), When I was 
answering the midterm exam, I didn’t find the exam that hard and I didn’t even study, since it was just more about putting
what I’ve experienced through-out my entire troubleshooting experiences. I found my classmates are just trying to get a 
glimpse of the answers from other classmate’s papers just to have answers on their blank test papers (It’s not going to work
unless it’s just purely multiple choices XD). I came in late but I was one of the first people to pass the paper. After a 
while, people were just copying each other because they had nothing to write. The night before the exam, some of them even 
prepared and memorized for identification type of exam in a troubleshooting subject, which is really just saddening and 
disappointing that they don’t really even have an idea on how to start studying and even answering the exam.
	
Half of the class troubleshooting a defective computer or a microprocessor is not really a good idea, only 2 or 3 people would 
actually troubleshoot and operate it and the others just talk and watch without any idea of what is really going on. Some of 
them would just wait and leech for answers. Nevertheless, at least we had a hands-on quiz rather than nothing. I understand the 
lack of resources this university could facilitate to its students but there are some other alternatives. We have computers in 
the lab that needs proper wiring management and repairing; and by asking permission from Sir Anuta all of this could’ve been 
done by the students and final project or an activity. 
	
One of my classmates is my girlfriend and before this taking up this subject, she only had a little knowledge about 
troubleshooting and handling computers. What I did is that I encouraged her to help me clean all computers and affix internet 
cables in our Internet Café every once in a while, and while doing so I taught her some basic techniques and tricks for 
troubleshooting, handling and cleaning computers. She learned a lot in a day than this whole semester. We both had an amazing 
expectation in this subject but we both got disappointed.
	
Having an instructor quit midway this semester and having classes postponed because of it and waiting for the replacement 
instructor can be really hard on both student and instructor, I completely understand the factors affecting our subject. 
I can’t put all the blame on you sir for not making this subject more comprehensive. I take into consideration that you might 
be reviewing your past lessons and making lesson plans for this specific subject and because we have a limited time left 
I’m pretty sure if given more time you could’ve done better. 
	
And as of now while I am encoding, I still really don’t understand your reasoning behind this essay for making it 1000 words. 
I am not a fan of repeating points in different wordings; I prefer to be clear and precise to get my point across and simple.
I could’ve said my point in less than 200 words.  

 
